#summary Acknowledgements
#labels Featured

= Acknowledgements =

== People ==

The following people have made significant contributions to the Cat project. Please write me (cdiggins@gmail.com) if you feel I have overlooked or misstated your contribution:

  * [http://www.latrobe.edu.au/philosophy/phimvt/ Manfred von Thun] - Cat is derived from Manfred's language, Joy
  * [http://www.ps.uni-sb.de/~rossberg/ Andreas Rossberg] - Andreas played a significant role in the formalization of the type system
  * [http://heisenbug.blogspot.com/ Gabor Greif] - Wrote the first implementation of a subset of Cat in another language. Gabor wrote a simplified Cat interpreter using Omega, a dialect of Haskell with dependent typing.
  * [http://www.praeclarum.org Frank Krueger] - Frank is one of the first major users of Cat, and has contributed signficiantlly in Cat design discussions. Frank ported Cat to the XBox, which was the first port of Cat to a platform not runnning .NET or Mono.
  * [http://www.colin-hirsch.net/ Colin Hirsch] - Colin contributed to the implementation of the Cat to C++ translator, and to many Cat design discussions. Colin is working on a dialect of Cat called Mog.
  * Kris Unger - Kris is the first non-programmer to learn Cat, and is the editor of the first book on Cat (in development).

== Groups ==

Members of the followings groups, have collectively helped signficantly in the design and development of the Cat language.

  * [http://www.lambda-the-ultimate.org Lambda-the-Ultimate.org]
  * [http://groups.yahoo.com/group/concatenative  Concatenative mailing list]
  * [http://groups.google.com/group/catlanguage Cat language discussion group]
  * [http://www.artima.com Artima.com]
  * [http://www.codeproject.com CodeProject.com]
  * [http://groups.yahoo.com/group/SeaFunc/ SeaFunc] - Seattle Functional Users Group

== Other People ==

The full list of people who have contributed directly or indirectly to Cat is truly huge. 

If you have ever been involved in any discussions about Cat I will be happy to write an appreciative letter of reference stating your contributions.   

  